good morning everyone i'm anne christo
graham cro of talend and i'm excited to
participate for the first time at saster
i hope those of you able to join in
person are enjoying a great conference
maybe meeting and reconnecting with a
few people that you haven't seen in a
long time
i wish i could be there in person as
well
um but i'll be joining you here
virtually today and share a few tips
based on my experiences as cro that
might help you as you think about going
to market
i've been in software sales for more
than 20 years and specifically worked at
companies and with companies who went
through or going through
the transition to become sas businesses
and today i'm responsible for the
worldwide distribution teams at talend
you may not be familiar with talent uh
talent's here to help organizations
achieve data health
achieving data health enables companies
to collaborate more easily make smart
decisions um and and make decisions with
confidence instead of well
kind of the traditional
uh doing resorting to guessing or gut
feel as you're making decisions about
what to do with the organization um and
uh and big changes that you might need
to make in the organization
we you might be thinking data health
what does that really mean how does this
tie back to today's session
well data health describes how well a
company's data supports business
objectives
it's amazing how much data is available
in most companies today but at the same
time shocking
how useless that data actually is to
most companies due to a variety of
different challenges that are they
they're different in every company
but it was that exact finding
of how difficult it is to actually use
data
that we learned about through some of
the research that we conducted over the
past 12 to 18 months which shaped
talon's own path to transformation and
how we view
our opportunity to help our customers
with their effort to make data useful
and today i'm going to share some of the
tips and tricks we've leveraged and that
i've found useful as a cro
especially considering some of the
things that we learned as a business as
well
number one having a continuous and
maniacal research validation of customer
needs ongoing at all times
number two a really clear focus on the
customer life cycle in its entirety to
help create predictable revenue and
number three the need to plan for scale
before i go into uh the first of my
three secrets you may have heard
companies describe themselves as product
driven
or as a sales driven organization no
matter what culture your business has
today or what you strive for in the
future one thing is for certain and
that's the customer centricity always
wins
according to gartner by 2023
organizations that take an outside-in
customer-driven approach to innovation
will deliver 50 percent more business
value than those that take a traditional
inside out i t centric approach
what does business value equate to well
ultimately it should equate to revenue
so let's talk about secret one which
centers around the need to validate and
champion your customers and their needs
that customer centricity that i was
talking about
validating the customer and customer we
need when entering a market is relevant
whether you're a new startup or also for
established companies that are bringing
a new product to life bringing a new
product to the market
possibly even established companies who
have kind of re-evaluated their market
and might be entering it in a different
way
consider
for a moment the impact of the pandemic
on businesses around the world over the
last 18 or so months and the numerous
companies that
really needed to reimagine who they were
reimagine their relevance or unique
value in what quickly became a
completely different world
imagine that companies who for example
this is a good example service schools
with breakfast and lunches for kids
with no kids in school
the need changed but it wasn't that the
need itself went away it just became
different
and i spent some time with a couple of
companies that were in this position
last year
they realized that they needed to
rethink their relevance and how they
went to market a little differently
their clients were still in need of
their services but they no longer needed
to bring food and staff to the schools
instead they needed to change their
distribution model to focus on
supporting the communities in the
various forms that were still needed
because those kids still needed their
lunches and their breakfasts it's just
that they needed it at home or maybe
needed it to be delivered um through
you know other other means in which that
would be able to get access that they'd
be able to get access to it so i bring
up this example not just to remind us of
all the challenges that we've faced over
the last couple of years but to remind
us of the opportunities um when you
place focus on the customer and their
needs
in the design and the delivery of your
product to market
and in early stages of a company many
might say i've got this great product
idea i'm gonna go pitch my product but
ultimately the success of the go to
market comes down to a clear
identification of the problem being
solved with the product
and importantly the customer's
perspective
of the value and outcome
that your product uniquely creates
so one of the first thing a company
needs to do is identify their ideal
customer what's the problem they're
trying to solve and is the problem big
enough or put in another way is the
solution valuable enough for the
customer to spend time money resources
solving with your unique solution
keep in mind that ideal that word ideal
in describing the ideal customers can
mean many different things at different
stages of your company's evolution
an ideal customer could be a customer of
a specific size or maybe a quantity of
customers that you're trying to get
access to in the early stages of your
company's evolution
while a customer's growth potential with
you or maybe their profitability factors
in factors more or play more heavily
into considerations later on
there are many great tools and
techniques out there that you should
expect product marketing or product
management to support you on as a sales
leader such as ideal customer profiling
market insights customer insights all
those things
but those assessments still need to be
validated to see if they pass what you
and your leaders know to be true
the sales teams are front and center
talking with customers and prospective
customers daily nobody
knows better than nuances or problems
that need to be solved than that group
so as a sales leader you need to not
only know the voice of the customer but
you have a unique perspective into the
sales performance how you're able to to
take these products to market are they a
good fit and the reasons behind it
and you need to bring those things back
into everything that the organization
does
from product planning to go to market to
customer journey designing to pricing
and packaging
and it's important to make sure your
teams are communicating in the spaces
they care about make sure everyone in
your organization is fully engaged and
aligned on what matters to the customer
so what does this all boil down to boils
down to collaborate and validate like
mad
use your network and your team's
networks to connect what you know about
your customers needs to potential
solutions
don't just listen bring that information
back to the organization because it's so
much more than that this is
amazing intelligence
that can really inform how you go to
market partner across functionally to
get the solutions that you know your
customers need and that you know you can
sell into market
and then expect alignment from everybody
involved that alignment is so critical
in order to drive product market fit
which ultimately leads to growth
so i mentioned um earlier as i was
introducing myself the talent was going
through a transformation as well
and our relentless focus on solving uh
customer problems led to talent to a
broad survey last year where among other
things we learned that companies were
struggling with predictability of costs
surrounding the use of the very assets
that we were focused on enabling for our
customers in order to help them achieve
data health so we took a step back
thought about
how we could help solve this problem
especially for our smb customers who are
more cost sensitive and designed pricing
and packaging that allowed for unlimited
row usage in the effort to move data to
cloud and without that continuous
evaluation of the market and customer
needs and the validation internally
around and across departments around
whether this could make a difference or
not we wouldn't have been able to go to
market recently with this unique offer
that creates predictability for our
customers
so um speaking of uh predictability
talked a little bit about secret number
one around research and continuous you
know evaluation of market needs and
customer needs and reassessing your
ability to to meet those needs well
all those things were great in terms of
in my story here being able to deliver
to something that was uniquely a problem
for our customers
but let me talk a little bit about
predictability of revenue as well
because let's face it as a cro
predictability and consistent revenue is
one of the most important jobs that we
have
companies sometimes go out of business
because they don't think about what they
need to do to be able to sustain and
grow their go to market model so how do
you build upon what you have today to
create a sustaining growing revenue
stream
well early stage companies will often
place a tremendous amount of focus on
landing right on the acquisition
and of course that's extremely important
you've got to build your base from what
you're going to grow upon
however it's also important to think
about the entire customer life cycle and
how you build to grow and create
continuous value
let me share a couple statistics with
you it costs up to seven times more to
acquire a new customer than to retain an
existing one
and 82 percent of companies agree that
customer retention is less expensive
than acquiring a new customer
existing customers are 50 more likely to
try new products and spend 31
more than new customers do
yet 44 of companies have a greater focus
on acquisition
versus the 16 that focus on retention
and have strategies associated with that
for most industries the average customer
retention rate is below 20
so just think about that in terms of
what the impact is on revenue with those
types of stats depending on whether you
focus on the acquisition
or put in place some plans associated
with retention
my advice after having built sales
motions that focus on expanding the
customer
to expensively grow revenue is to build
a product and go to market strategy that
not only thinks about that or that early
stage land but really holistically
thinks about the customer life cycle
front to end from the start
think about the end goal and the
evolution potential
what is the customer's potential how do
you want to get them there how do you
lead them to that
understand why your customers chose you
to begin with and what they need in
their definition of success set concrete
expectations at the start of the
engagement deliver on those satisfy your
customers needs to like them
and then innovate on how you can provide
unexpected extras that go above and
beyond
continue to measure satisfaction
improve the customer experience make it
easy for the customer to continue to do
business with you to see how you can
continue to deliver additional value
throughout their customer journey
when you understand the customer's needs
and expectations and create delighted
customers it will pay off
you'll reduce churn and inspire loyalty
and all those things then together with
the other strategies around acquisition
will certainly generate growth
so let's talk about the third
secret as well one of the things that i
have learned is that you can plan like
the best of them only to be impacted by
curveballs that create a complete set of
unpredictable
chaos around you
and we have many examples that we can
look back on in addition to the impacts
of the pandemic over the last 12 to 18
months
take a look at the transportation
industry that was completely disrupted
by uber
or
the retail industry
disrupted by amazon
multiple times in different iterations
we can all remember back in the day when
they only sold books
and then there's the economic
instability such as the financial crisis
of 2007 and 2008 that create immense
disruption of the status quo so how do
you adequately adequately prepare for
any of those things that might come your
way
it's difficult to plan for the
unimaginable
but what i've learned is that you can
much better adapt and adjust when you've
built with an end goal in mind when
you've had a plan
once you have a vision for the future
and plan for then you can really plan
for where things might go wrong you can
plan plan for maybe that unexpected
competitor that comes along um from
behind and that or that unexpected
downturn
if you don't plan for that to happen it
just kind of hits you in the face
so as you're thinking about your go to
market think about where you want to get
to what's your end goal with your
customer and work backwards from there
try to try to measure everything becomes
a distraction instead zero down
on a set of really clear winning choices
identify your five this needs to be true
metrics
to measure success to tie it back to the
customer life cycle
validate the approach in the metrics how
and when they're being reported in the
operational model
to learn and remove the obstacles to
your opportunities
it's also important
extremely important to think about the
systems and processes that support the
business
invest in the right set of systems and
technology to track and document early
on i i can't underscore this enough
don't let processes get in your way
but allow them to guide and support even
during that time of early scrappiness as
a startup think about customer life
cycle tracking what are the kinds of
things that you need to learn and know
so that you can um
you know use that information as you
continue to evolve your go to market
strategies
create a single source of truth for
rules guidelines faqs etc make sure
everyone has access to the documents be
transparent about what you're trying to
do
it's not just about the rules itself
it's about creating a company's overall
philosophy that will lead you
through to where you're trying to go and
like i said before once you've got that
plan you're much more capable and much
more able to adjust
when needed when something comes at you
that you just weren't expecting
so as you continue to grow and plan for
growth that foundation will allow you to
scale and pivot as the market or
industry your customer needs adjust
around you
and enables you to do so while keeping
the customer's success at the forefront
of your in your focus
so in closing
as we think about extremely successful
people and companies that make this look
really easy uh this quote from mark
benioff stands out to me as we go back
to that first secret that i shared about
successful revenue growth around really
understanding the customer and their
definition of success
constantly research and validate the
customer's needs and keep that focus on
the voice of the customer building a go
to market approach that contemplates the
land and they expand through the full
customer life cycle and how you're going
to do that
how you're going to bring your company
around it
deliver a product and a model that keeps
the customer and their success front and
center
and the foundation will be there to
allow you to scale and grow predictably
so thank you um for listening and i'm
excited to take some questions now
here we go what is one challenge you
didn't anticipate in your first year as
cro
my first year cro was also my first year
at a new company and i didn't know the
employees our customers or our partners
obviously being new to the company
and when the pandemic hit you know it
wasn't all that strange for me to go and
work from a home office i'd done that
for years prior to this change so that
switch just wasn't very foreign to me
however what i quickly realized is how
challenging it would be
that i didn't when i didn't have the
opportunity to get out to the field in
front of customers
sitting alongside my team across from
customers having very open dialogue
about the present and future
understanding their biggest challenges
there's just something to be said for
being out in front of a customer and
hearing directly from them what their
challenges are day in day out
though i'm
grateful for zoom and other similar
platforms they've been extremely
valuable during this time but
this really reaffirmed for me how
critical it is to be in front of
customers on a regular basis to be in
their day-to-day
to fully understand their challenges and
i think that's extremely important as a
sales leader as a cro to be able to be
that voice internally as i've described
before and being able to really um
you know be that voice and and be that
advocate for their needs
so um that was probably one of my
biggest challenges over the last uh year
and a half or so
and i think we are our time so uh we'll
go ahead and take a look at the other uh
questions that have come through here
make sure we address them with you all
thanks again for your time and have a
great conference
you